‘It was rather common for patients to claim significant insights into their problems, to feel that they had been given a new lease on life, and to make a strong resolution to discontinue their drinking.’

‘It was not unusual for patients following their LSD experience to become much more self-accepting, to show greater openness and accessibility, and to adopt a more positive, optimistic view of their capacities to face future problems


Its unusual for a psychiatric medication to have a positive treatment effect lasting for several months after a single dose. Krebs and Johansen suggest that repeated doses of LSD coupled with modern, evidence-based alcohol relapse prevention treatments might provide more sustained results. 

“Psychedelics probably work in addiction by making the brain function more chaotically for a period — a bit like shaking up a snow globe — weakening reinforced brain connections and dynamics,

the studies, the patients were encouraged to reflect on their alcoholism. In some of the trials, patients had the opportunity to talk with a therapist; in others, they received brief reassurance, if they wanted it. 

The patients who received the LSD dose were less likely to relapse into problematic alcohol use, and were more likely to abstain altogether.
The greatest improvements were during the first few months of treatment. This wore off with time. Perhaps this suggests repeated doses might work better.

"It is unusual for psychiatric drugs to have an effect that lasts for several months after a single dose, " write the authors.

"We now better understand that alcoholism is a chronic, relapsing disorder that typically requires ongoing treatment. The next step should be to periodically provide additional doses of LSD in combination with modern evidence-based treatment programs," they conclude.

  >it is puzzling why this treatment approach has been largely overlooked, given the evidence for a beneficial effect of LSD on alcoholism
  
 generally seems to open an individual to an awareness of new perspectives and opportunities for action."----work in addiction by making the brain function more chaotically for a period — a bit like shaking up a snow globe — weakening reinforced brain connections and dynamics." 
 
 "LSD may stimulate the formation of new connections and patterns, and generally seems to open an individual to an awareness of new perspectives and opportunities for action," the researchers said in a university statement. "We do not yet fully know why LSD works this way."

 Dr. Richard Ries, an addiction psychiatrist at the University of Washington Department of Psychiatry warned that little is known about LSD's side effects, but using one drug to fight addiction to another is nothing new.